--- 
layout: nofigpost 
title: Just Do It
categories: ['documentation' , 'annoyances' ]
published: true
--- 

When I was still in school, there was a concert I wanted to attend, but had not
bought tickets for. It was hosted on campus. It's cold in the winter where I
went to school, so there were tunnels connecting most of the buildings on
campus. I wondered if I could sneak up to the concert venue from below, and
come out through an emergency exit door. 

I walked around earlier that day, but couldn't find a way that would get me in
to see the show. I didn't want to see it badly enough to buy tickets from
students who no longer wanted to attend. In fact, sneaking in was probably the
main reason I wanted to go to see the band. I had never heard them before
finding out they were coming to campus. 

As luck would have it, when the evening came around, thunderstorms appeared,
and the concert moved indoors, to a place more usually reserved for orchestras
and ballets. To preserve the concert atmosphere, the organizers had allowed a
limited number of guests to stand in the orchestra pit. It felt kind of like
those young experiments that would feel contrived unless forced by the
situation at hand. 

I hadn't seen any of this yet, but I did hear of the move inside, wandering
around campus taking a break from working that night. Years before, when
acting in a play onstage in the orchestra/ballet/highbrow hall, I had spent a
fair amount of time exploring, and knew that there were other tunnels which
lead directly backstage, from the mathematics department, among other places.
Old campuses are often like that, I think, but I'm not sure why.

In case I got caught, I figured it would be worthwhile to look extra goofy, so
I brought some juggling balls. Someone trying to get into a concert so as not
to pay is considered a freeloader, but someone wandering around late at night
with juggling balls in the maths department was just someone with some
thoughts to think out.

I came down the stairs to where I knew the mathematics building and backstage
met, I tried the door. It opened onto a set of stacked chairs. My adrenaline
rushed a little, because I knew from experience that bands had bouncers, and
bouncers were paid to make sure people didn't sneak backstage. I wasn't so
much interested in going backstage to meet the band - although that would have
been fine - I just wanted to get in. 

I watched a little, and not seeing anyone started to push the chairs back. Two
people started walking by and a froze a bit, then asked how they had managed
to get in. They turned and looked at me funny, said they had come from the
back, and kept walking. When they turned, I got a glimpse of their organizer
nametags. I froze until I realized they'd gone without wondering why someone
was squeezing past some chairs in front of a door. I guess people don't see
what they don't look for. 

After waiting a bit more, then squeezed past the chairs and found myself
backstage. Hearing noises in the back, I decided heading that direction was
better than jumping on stage, so I tried my best to confidently walk into a
group of people. Just when I walked in, a roadie asked everyone for help
moving a heavy metal case. I jumped in, grabbed a handle, and did my part. No
one had looked at me funny yet. I'm guessing the roadies thought I looked
student enough to be a student who'd forgotten a nametag, and the students
thought I looked traveled enough to be a roadie. Perhaps not having a nametag
makes you look even more important, like you're a friend of the band, but
given the way the organizers didn't wonder why I was coming in from a door
behind a ten foot high stack of chairs, I'm not sure anything hand crossed
their minds yet. 

When the first band had finished, and everything had been moved offstage, the
audience waited for a while for the second band to come out. I held the
realistic assumption that I would be found out soon enough, and I felt awkward
with nothing else to help with. People tend to look at each other less when
they're working together to solve a problem. So I went to the front of the
stage and started juggling. I believe there were some cheers, and a bit of
"wtf" but it turns out you can't really see the audience with the bright
lights anyway, so I have no real clue what the reception was. I'm sure I
dropped a few times, but mostly I was concerned with a gigantic bouncer
grabbing the collar of my shirt and hefting me back like a naughty kitten.
The longer this did't happen, the more worried I became, so I grabbed my balls
and returned backstage. 

Soon after, a younger student organizer looked at me cockeyed, and said "Who
are you with?" I knew if I said "I'm not supposed to be here" I was done, and
I knew if I challenged her with a fib "oh, I'm with the roadies," it would be
extroardinarily easy to check. So I simply said "Hi, my name is
egocodedinsol!" and extended my hand. I think the key was that I said with my
eyes that I knew I wasn't invited to be there, but that I thought I belonged
nonetheless. If I'd forced her to acknowledge that I wasn't officially
supposed to be there, she'd have had to take action - after all, if anyone
just let friends backstage, all manner of problems would ensue. Alternatively,
if I'd insulted her intelligence with a fib, she'd have had to take the same
action.

Funnily enough, she introduced herself right back, and we found out we had a
love of science in common. We talked for a bit, moved things around some more,
and I grabbed some water. Then she asked if I'd like to watch the concert from
above. I wasn't quite sure what this meant, but I nodded. Probably best to get
away from other people who might ask me where my nametag was. She lead me down
the front of the stage, to the back of the hall, and up a ladder. I followed
her down a catwalk to where some overhead lights were shining on the stage,
from maybe 50 feet up. 50 feet always seems so short horizontally, but so high
vertically. Obvious reasons, I guess, but no less shake-inducing when you're
looking straight down. The band came on, and we listened for a while, until
the lead singer started crowdsurfing over the mosh pit. That's a pretty
phenomenal thing to see from 50 feet up. Obvious reasons, I guess. 

After dancing for a while up there with no one to see, we walked through the
crowd to the front stairs of the stage. A bouncer tried to tell me not to
come, at which point I thought "I guess I'm finished, maybe they'll let me
watch from below" but she convinced him otherwise. I think I'm the most proud
of that. 

There are plenty of obvious points, and I'll let those stand on their names:
take risks, make friends, don't bullshit, people don't think about you as much
as you think they do. But there's one that ties them together that wasn't
clear to me until recently. You can do it even if no one has told you that you
can. You can make friends, even if no one tells you "be my friend!" You can
take a risk, even if no one has said "hey, this is an appropriate risk!"
