---
layout: nofigpost 
title: Is That the Most Interesting Thing You Can Say? 
published: true
---

I used to have the title[^1] taped above my desk in my lab office, to remind me that
not everything I think is interesting to others, and not everything that's true
matters in every discussion. Of course, interestingness is not the most
appropriate criterion for a comment in every situation (the hurricane is coming,
but people, what would be the most interesting thing to do?), but it's what I
look for most in online discussions at the moment. 

To maximize the "interesting-ness" of conversations, I suggest that too things
are beneficial: a common understanding of what each member knows and enjoys, and
an influx of new things that are not known to most members, but can reasonably
be believed to matter to them. 

By a common understanding, I do not mean a large shared pool of knowledge, but
it does help to know what's been said before. This seems to require a small,
close-knit group, or at least a group whos state of knowledge lies in a pretty
tight distribution. 

The requirement of a constant influx of new ideas would seem to
contradict the first, but it actually depends on it: if I have no idea what's
already known, I won't know whether I'm introducing something novel, or harping
on an old refrain. This seems to require growth, at least in what each person
learns, or in the addition of new members. 

The push and pull of close-knit groups and the need for new members or ideas
leads to a problem for web communities. Growth is probably necessary, but too
much destroys the ability to have a meaningful representation of what members
know. As a result, boring comments are made, over and over again. To a new
member, these comments often provide value and insight, but to older members,
the comments are repetitive at best, and karma-whoring at worst.

However, if some web communities will continue to grow, it might be useful to
have some guidelines. As a heuristic, I've developed a system I try to keep in
mind when making comments, to rank or categorize them[^2]. I tend to think of
these comments as if I were making them at a scientific conference, so I'll
place them in that context. Sometimes taking what happens in an internet
community and asking how it would look in person offers an emotionally salient
perspective. 

These are not rigid, but it might be a helpful starting point. Incidentally, I
believe they're most helpful in deciding whether to upvote someone's comment, or
otherwise reward it. There are other reasons to upvote, but in a community where
the same ideas make the rounds over and over, I believe interestingness is
often more appropriate than most other considerations it's in tension with. 

# I0: One-line insults 

These types of comments usually don't address anything at all about another
comment, a submission, or any idea in general. 

"what a doofus", "I am so fing tired of this crap", "why would anyone think
that?"

If I did this at a scientific conference, I would be met with blank stares, and
be shut out of any good discussion. 

# I1: Comments on procedure or minor points of form. 

Usually these points are either obviously true, or subjective. They can be
interesting in the appropriate context, like when someone asks you to critique
an essay. Otherwise, they're just boring. 

"I don't like the font choice", "why is this being flagged or downvoted?", "it
would be great if we could change the title", "why won't this work without
javascript?", "why do the numbers start at 0 instead of 1?"

The danger is that most people might agree and all have strong feelings. The
font choice might really be hard to read, the title might be very misleading.
So in an internet community where everyone can vote, or even in a social circle
where people can nod their assent or give other nonverbal feedback, it totally
derails any other points the article or speaker may have made. 

You can usually spot these beginning with the statement "I hate to be off-topic,
but ...", or "It's 2013 guys, can we stop ..."

At a conference, these might be relatively harmless, but if I have 5 minutes to
speak to someone, what have I learned by telling them "gee, I like your poster,
but let's not talk about that; let's talk about your appreciation of fonts"?

# I2: Calls to action

Often these comments _do_ reflect the beliefs and knowledge of the community,
but are rarely novel. The most popular ones make a statement a substantial
portion people in the world at large agree with, but often not all, so that those who
agree feel a need to upvote, or nod, so that their perspective or point of view
will gain more visibility, and ultimately, "win". They often omit reasoning, but
sometimes include it. 

Sometimes these comments are useful, in times of crisis, or
when decisive leadership is needed. Other times, they're never going to convince
people, so they serve only to make the people who already agree with you like
you more. 

"God is a delusion", "Science funding should increase", "We need to stop X"

Often I agree with these statements, but if I attended a conference where the
highest honors or best invited lectures were given by people who said nothing
but "Science is important, guys" I would stop going. 

# I3: Admonition

When a user does something mean, or uninteresting, sometimes another member will
submit a link to community guidelines, point out the error. This is sometimes
helpful when the admonisher is a respected member of the community that helps
set community norms. Often times, it just serves to gratify the ego of the
commenter, however, even when they're right. In person, people who do mean
things begin to be left out, and specifically taking them to task just
legitimizes whatever they've done. This type of comment can be useful, but it is
rarely interesting. 

At a conference, if an older member gently, and often in private, points out
that a particular behavior is not generally encouraged, it can do well to
regulate the community. On the other hand, if the chair at a speaking event
humiliated a commenter who was legitimately mean, it might be well-deserved, but
it doesn't really make the conference more interesting. 

# I4: Establishment of Fact

This kind of comment can be very interesting, but often is filled with
unecessary details, as if the commenter feels compelled to detail every single
thought they had about a submission or idea. 

"1) x,y,z
2) I like p,d,q in the author's paragraph 3, but I would change q slightly to q'
.
.
.
N) Lastly, they completely forgot about d'', it doesn't change their story much,
but why not mention it in a 5 paragraph blog post?"

The most important way to make this comment interesting is to ask if a) your
fact is unlikely to be known to the audience and b) relevant to the
submission. 

# I5: Association and Expansion

Sometimes when you're confronted with an interesting point that requires
technical knowledge, it's tempting to expand from talking about that small, hard
thing itself, and discuss only its broader implications, or something else it
makes you think of, that "hey! guess what! I know little about X, but lots about
X' let me talk about that". 

"Expanding the comment" with context is not always bad. The most interesting
points are placed in some sort of context, but only as a general reminder. This
is one place where close-knit groups can help. Everyone working on quantum
computation knows how important it is, so they don't need to spend a conference
discussing where it lies in the grand scheme of things. The grand scheme is very
interesting at first, but once it's established, it's not so much fun to
repetitively bring up, unless some new development inside the field (or
outside!) shakes it up considerably. 

Likewise, associations to other ideas can be extremely interesting, but only
when they don't ignore the original point. An example of the latter might be:

"Whoa, it's great that you might be getting nuclear fusion to approach
net-energy > 0. That reminds me of when Fermi first established the
self-sustaining nuclear fission reaction. He did it underneath the stadium at the
University of Chicago's football field, which had formerly been a football
powerhouse. It really emphasizes a transition from sporting to academic
excellence ..."

It's not a bad comment, but it's not as interesting, perhaps, as an association
that points to a potential change in the topic at hand, or how the topic at hand
will point to a change in some other field: "whoa, that's cool, combined with
this other group's results there could be a working nuclear fusion reactor
powering SF in the next 10 years. Here are some obstacles they'd have to
overcome, but here are some ways they might do it!" It definitely branches and
explands, and it even broadens the topic, but it does so in a very interesting
manner, provided the above fact is not already well known to the rest of the
audience. 

# I6: How the world will change

The most interesting comments illustrate how the major perspective put forth by a submission or
other comment will alter the way the world is organized, or how we understand it
to be. Or they change the way I think or approach the world. 


[^1]: (1) [Some guy](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=4693920)

[^2]: (2) These are based on [another
list](http://www.paulgraham.com/disagree.html) buy that guy
