---
layout: post 
title: Dramatic Conclusions 
categories: [ 'writing', 'whining' ]
reviewers: [ 'Linus Pauling', 'Copoenicus', 'Jeremiah Bernhardt' ]
figures: [ "SFNOreo_05_02_08-moveStartTime-16POINT1-4POINT2-DiDist.png", "Paper1-03.png" ]
---

Thinking about motor mappings is a cool perspective. I would disagree that the
distinction should be between physical tool-esque and social-esque. I contend
that it depends on tools which are fluid, and tools which are opa. 

Tetrapalegic individuals who've been implanted with brain-machine-interface
devices to control a computer cursor or change television channels have
reported that while they were initially trained to think of moving their
inactive limb up or down to change a channel, they eventually just saw the
television as an extension of themselves, simply thinking "change up" or
"change down." And those were neurons which were originally directly mapped to
an entirely different, non-digital process. 

I was curious how often these are in conflict in the things I use the most, and
it's clear that in those things I conceptualize as tools, it's not even
necessary. In simple menu items, it's largely irrelevant: 

gmail: Inbox, Starred, Important, Sent Mail, Drafts.  facebook: News Feed,
Messages, Events, Photos, Groups, Favorites OSX: "About This Mac", "System
Preferences", etc. 

These don't really have a need to distinguish between "my" or "your". 

With sentences, the products I use seem more mixed: 

gmail: "Apply your label", "shared with me".  facebook: "Who can see my
stuff?", "Who can contact me?", "Which city do you live in?", "What city did
you grow up in?" OSX: "All my files" (yes, they could remove the "my" but it's
differentiated by user), "Watch short videos on how to use your Apple products"

