---
layout: nofigpost
title: Library of Congress
categories: [ 'documentation' , 'annoyances' ]
reviewers: [ 'Cosma Shalizi', 'Aaron Rodgers' ]
published: true
--- 
*Contrary to the NTIA's recommendation, the Librarian of Congress ruled that
phones purchased after January of this year would no longer be exempted from
the DMCA.*

I had missed this part of the process when this first surfaced. I imagined the
Librarian of Congress just rubber-stamped the recommendation, having other,
more traditionally Librarian-of-Congress-esque things to consider. 

It seems clear to me now that we're shoehorning more recent concerns into an
older model. 

While I am often less than excited about a proliferation of federal offices, I
imagine having an office with limited scope for something like mobile
technology, personal computing, or "the internet" might limit more bureaucracy
with a specific, focused mandate. 

I am curious if anyone has any insight into what such an office might look
like, and how wide its scope should be. Perhaps there is an office that already
exists in which this function might be more appropriately placed? 

I vaguely understand the legacy reasons for the LoC overseeing copyright, and
since cell phones use software, and software can be covered by copyright, it
originally fell under the LoC purview. But now that software is involved in
just about everything from the commercial bakery I worked in to the
computerized wood-carvers we sold at Sears, it would seem time to separate
AllThingsCopyright into more distinct classes. 

Ultimately, I feel that the complexity of government should not be measured by
teh number of departments, but how specific their functions are. Small
functions are easy to write tests for, etc. 

