---
layout: nofigpost 
title: Junto
categories: [ 'writing', 'whining' ]
published: true
---


Each author writes a pseudoanonymous article. This article will be reviewed by
at least two anonymous reviewers from the group. It may be reviewed by others,
but they should agree not to share your identity widely. After the reviewers
give the okay, their names become public, and are appended at the bottom of
the article. The name of the author remains anonymous. 

The point of the anonymity is mainly to discourage self-promotion. Not the
obvious kind, but the "I want everyone to know just how {smart, humble,
well-conected, wordly, thoughtful} I am" kind. Letting people know these
things is not bad in principle, but we believe it will detract from the
quality of the essays. 

You are free to let anyone know you write here; you should not publicly
declare what you've written or drop obvious hints. For comparison, telling
a friend is fine but tweeting your own articles is discouraged.  

Writing should be as a low-pass filter over the noisy signal of your topic. 

# What to review

Is the article useful ? Every intelligent reader should be able to answer
"What is different if this article is correct?" by the end of the article. 

Does the article innovate? Articles should think differently not by striking a
contrarian tone, but by seeking out a new direction entirely, then explaining
how the new direction resolves a previous contention, dissolves a commonly
held way of thinking, or changes the way we act. 

Would the author  be embarrassed to be wrong? Here's an example of an article
that is largely regarded as "incorrect" but is not embarassing: Francis
Fukuyama's "The End of History?" Fukuyama suggested, roughly, that democracies
would be unlikely to change to less-free forms of rule, and so democracy would
form an equlibrium of sorts that would eventually encompass the world. This
has been challenged by the last decade, but it is by no means an embarassing
work, except insofar as the naivete of the 1990s as a whole is concerned.  

Is the article nice? It is fine to disagree with current trends. In
fact, thinking differently is encouraged. However, every article should pass
the following heuristics: "If I brought a friend to a dinner party and she said
this to the host in disagreement, would I feel embarassed?" 

Does the article have factual errors? More importantly, is it context-checked
and obvious-alternative-hypothesis-checked? For example, an article discussing
a downward trend in a toy price that did not address a general market downturn
over the same period might be improved by noting the possible confounding
variable, then dismissing it with a good reference, say noting that toy prices
in the same market had generally increased. 

Is it a takedown aimed at a particular industry or person. Disagreements are
fine, but they are best placed within the context of a larger idea. Even if it
is nice, a takedown is boring without a broader context. 

Does the style enhance the message?

# Style

These style considerations are perhaps not universal, but they should be
followed here. 

Flash is bad.

Columns should be skinny. 

Two or three colors suffice. 

The tools are chosen for the message, not vice versa. 

Writing is confident without being pompous. 





# Starting points

A great article might take a complicated problem, and make it much simpler,
even if it does not propose a specific solution. 





