---
layout: nofigpost 
title: Context For Innovation
categories: [ 'writing', 'whining' ]
published: true
---

I'm glad someone has brought this up. I'd like to take it one step further,
though, and suggest that even those ideas which never ultimately make a big
splash still serve a very valuable purpose.

There are achievements and products which epitomize a movement, a genre, or a
technology when viewed in hindsight, like open source software, Michelangelo,
or Google's self-driving cars. And then, there are experiments, failures, and
small advancements that get swept under the rug of history. These are also
important.

There's a tool molecular biologists use called Green Fluorescent Protein
(GFP)[1]. Someone studied jellyfish a in the 60s and 70s to try to figure out
what made them glow. What a waste of money, why not just study humans and
improve longevity? Turned out in 1992 that the protein that causes the glowing
is incredibly useful to studying protein expression in biology. When spliced
into the genes that code specific proteins, GFP is produced when those proteins
are produced, and can thus be imaged. Work on GFP won the Nobel Prize and
spurred an incredible amount of research.

We are now able to change the behavior neurons with light by genetically
altering them so that they have light-sensitive ion channels: in short, shine a
(focused) light, change the electrical properties of the neurons it hits[2].
(!). What if no one had, in the 70s and 80s, thought to study light-driven ion
pumps in microbes?

It's cool, but not supremely important that Vine and Pinterest turned out to be
great ideas. It's important that things like that were tried.

[1]http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_fluorescent_protein
[2]http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optogenetics
